0 Italy Germany!
Just the person I want to speak with. I have a somewhat crazy
idea that I've always wanted to try with I/G, but I've never
actually convinced the other guy to try it. And, what's worse,
it might make you suspicious of me.
So...do I suggest it?
I'm thinking that this is a low stakes game, not a tournament or
anything, and an interesting and unusual move set might make
it more fun? That's my hope anyway.
What is your appetite like for unusual and crazy?
Truth Truth
1 GermanyYou've whet my appetite, Italy. What's the suggestion? Truth Truth
2 Italy Okay, don't hate me!
Key West (Just thought of the name lol)
Basic point is that I move to Tyr in Spring and into Mun in
the Fall, while I take Tun with my fleet. I build A Ven/F Nap.
You open to Ruh/Hol/Kie, and force Belgium. You wind up
with 2 builds, and the sympathy and concern of your neighbors
who are astonished at the crazy Italian. "What a stupid move,
he can't hold Munich!"Trap is set to oblterate France in the
Spring of 02. Bel S Mun - Bur, Ven - Pie, Tun - WMed. France
won't see it coming, He will see that attack on Munich and
think that both you and I will be occupied for a while. So
Spring 02 should be a serious surprise.
Now, you're taking risk here, because you're giving up a home
center for a turn hence the "Key"), but I think you can see pretty
clearly that I derive no benefit from trying to double-cross you.
After all, Italy trying to hold Munich is just dumb. I'm from
a school of thought that even trying to move to Munich is
just dumb. But this would be the one exception. I can't hold
Munich, and even if I wanted to, it would give me an awkward
snake formation in the middle of the board that is a great way
to be first eliminated.
So I think this works because you know (even more than Austria in a traditional Key Lepanto), that I'm not going to stab you.
And doing it this way allows us to take Burgundy by surprise,
it ensures you get Belgium, and it crushes your biggest rival
and toughest border (France). Plus, it'll be fun. The Key West!
Thoughts?
*This message crashed the Beta version of our bot with its
length and is not in the dataset. It alone is manually extracted
and added here the purposes of readability*
Truth None
3 GermanyIt seems like there are a lot of ways that could go wrong...I don't
see why France would see you approaching/taking Munich-
while I do nothing about it-and not immediately feel skittish
Truth Truth
4 Italy Yeah, I can't say I've tried it and it works, cause I've never
tried it or seen it. But how I think it would work is (a) my
Spring move looks like an attack on Austria, so it would not be
surprising if you did not cover Munich. Then (b) you build two
armies, which looks like we're really at war and you're going
to eject me. Then we launch the attack in Spring. So there is
really no part of this that would raise alarm bells with France.
All that said, I've literally never done it before, and it does
involve risk for you, so I'm not offended or concerned if it's
just not for you. I'm happy to play more conventionally too.
Up to you.
Truth None
5 Italy I am just sensing that you don't like this idea, so shall we talk
about something else? That was just a crazy idea I've always
wanted to try. I'm happy to play more conservatively.
Truth None
6 Italy Any thoughts? Truth None
7 GermanySorry Italy I've been away doing, um, German things. Brewing
Lagers?
Truth Truth
8 GermanyI don't think I'm ready to go for that idea, however I'd be down
for some good ol'-fashioned Austria-kicking?
Truth Lie
9 Italy I am pretty conflicted about whether to guess that you were
telling the truth or lying about the "brewing lagers" thing. I am
going to take it literally and say thumbs down even though I
don't think you meant it deceptively.
Truth Truth
10 Italy But I think I can get over "Lagergate" and we can still be
friends.
As of right now, I think Austria may be my most reliable ally.
I'm thinking I'd like to play as a Central Trio if you have any
interest in that. Thoughts?
Truth Truth
11 GermanyWe haven't even passed a season yet and you have a 'most
reliable ally'?
I'll consider this proposal but, basically, I'm not going to expose myself to risk from either of you until I've seen a bit of
your behavior
Truth Truth
12 Italy Well, at least I have an idea of who to trust. Obviously, my
ideas are subject to change.
I understand your desire to watch behavior before committing
to anything. I, personally, am a partner player. I look carefully
early in the game for a small group to work with, and then I
value loyalty and collaboration. I like to work closely with a
tight-knit alliance.
If you prefer to hop and back and forth, or play more of an
individual game, then we might not be a good match.
I'm looking for a loyal ally or two that I can coordinate with
and make awesome moves with. Makes the game easier and a
lot more fun.
Truth Truth
13 Italy Just an FYI: I've now had both England and France suggest to
me that I should move to Tyrolia and France will support me
to Munich in the Fall. One saying that to me is not a big deal,
but with both mentioning it, my alarm bells are going off. I am
concerned about an E/F.
I'm certainly not moving to Tyrolia. But I just want you to
be cautious here. I feel like England and France are working
together.
Truth Truth
14 GermanyI appreciate the tip, but I'm wondering why you're so against
ousting me from Munich if I haven't explicitly agreed to be
your ally?
Truth Truth
15 Italy Because it is terrible, terrible play for Italy to attack Germany,
in my view. If I were to attack you in Munich, I could never
hold Munich. So, all I would be doing is weakening you, and
helping France, England, or both to get really big.
I don't have any long-term path going north. Helping France
to take you down is a sucker's play, whether you are working
with me or not.
Truth None
16 Italy Did France tell you he was moving to Burgundy, or was that a
stab?
Truth Truth
17 GermanyI was not informed of it, no. And England is leading me to
believe it's part of a play for Belgium, so if they're working
together this might be a trick...
Italy, you seem like a straight shooter, and Austria has confirmed with me about your two's alliance. So I'll confide in
you-this is my first ever game of diplomacy, and I think that
teaming up with the two of you could help me learn more and
have more fun. So, if you're still interested in a central powers
alliance, I'm in.
Truth Truth
18 GermanyOkay full disclosure: I'm not very smart, and I accidentally let
slip to England that you told me France was plotting to take
Munich. I'm sorry for the error but I figured it was better to
admit it so you know that England/France may not trust you.
Truth Truth
19 Italy Okay, thanks for telling me. Truth Truth
20 GermanySo, um, no alliance then? Truth Truth
21 Italy I do want to be allies. Sorry, busy weekend here running around
with bambinos. More to come.
Truth Truth
22 GermanyWhat would you think of helping me take Marseilles in two
turns?
Truth Truth
23 Italy Hi Germany, I'll certainly consider that. Though, I'll note:
traditionally, Germany would help Italy to Marseilles if the
two of them work together there. The reason is that: if I help
you to Marseilles, I'm basically cut off from going west and
getting anything myself. So, usually, Germany would help Italy
into Marseilles to encourage Italy to come west and Germany
would plan to take Paris, Belgium and Brest.
Truth Truth
24 GermanyFair enough-I'll help you take it, then, but I'll need to deal
with Belgium first.
Truth Truth
25 Italy How are things going with England? I think that getting him to
work with you is the main key here.
Truth Truth
26 GermanyI'm trying-I just offered to assist with taking Sweden in exchange for some assistance into Belgium...not sure if they'll go
for it...
Truth Truth
27 Italy I'll check with England and try to see where his head is at. Truth Truth
28 GermanyI've actually been thinking about this game all day and have
come up with a plan I like a bit better... but England still hasn't
responded to my initial offer.
Truth None
29 Italy That's the worst!
And I'm glad to see you're so focused on this in your first game.
It's a really great game if you put in the time and effort!
Truth Truth
30 GermanyYou're definitely telling the truth on that one. So can I count
on you to move to piedmont this season?
Truth Truth
31 Italy I don't think I can afford to move to Piedmont this season. I
don't really trust Austria to avoid walking through that door if
I leave it wide open.
I think you need to get England on board to attack France.
Truth Truth
32 GermanyThat's valid. And actually I was conferring with England and
we concluded that it's not really gonna be possible for me to
help you take Marseilles this year anyway.
...what are you and Austria planning for this year, then? I'm
willing to tell you my plans in exchange as a gesture of trust.
Have you communicated at all with England or France?
Truth Truth
33 Italy Hi, are you there?
Just woke up.
England did return my message, but he did not tell me anything substantive so I really don't know what he's doing. I'm
planning to move towards Turkey.
Truth Truth
34 Italy Well, you're in trouble. That England move is trouble.
I'm going to try to convince him to change course. I suggest
you be very kind to him, and don't burn that bridge. I think
your game hinges on turning England around.
Truth Truth
35 Italy Hi Germany,
I'm working hard on turning England. And I'm also trying to
get Russia to come to your aid. Doing the best I can! I'll keep
you posted.
Truth Truth
36 GermanyEngland just told me that Russia is helping them to take Denmark so that may be a lost cause. Granted, the source for that
intel is a serpentine jackal-spawn
Truth Truth
37 Italy Okay, I'm reasonably sure that England wants to take the Channel and attack France now.
I believe that you should basically do whatever England asks
to help make this happen. As long as E attacks F, you will be
in a much better position, and you'll gain back centers quickly.
What are you hearing?
Truth Truth
38 GermanyWhat are your plans for this turn? I can't help but notice that
Munich is surrounded by foreign armies on three sides...
I wish I could be more helpful but I'm pretty much just treading
water right now trying not to lose anything else
Truth Truth
39 Italy Hey - sorry, just getting back into this now. Truth Truth
40 Italy I have good news! (1) I am finally attacking France this turn.
(2) I will be supporting Munich to hold from Tyrolia.
Let's turn this game around, yes?
Truth Truth
41 Italy I am pretty sure that England is not attacking you this turn.
And I am committed to supporting Munich holding. Make sure
you don't move Munich so that it can take my support.
Truth Truth
42 GermanyOkay, can do. Thanks! Truth Truth
43 Italy I suggest that you order: Kiel Support Berlin holding Berlin
Support Munich holding Helg to Holland Munich Support
Berlin holding
Truth Truth
44 GermanyI agree completely-although I didn't know that a country could
hold *and* support at the same time! Thanks!
Truth Truth
45 GermanyThanks Italy. Hope you're enjoying the weather on the Anatolian
Truth Truth
46 Italy I will be supporting Munich to hold again. And I'll be trying
to get Russia to back off your flank and protect himself against
an Austrian stab that is coming.
Truth None
47 Italy Two bits of advice: #1 I suggest you tell Russia that Austria is
coming for him. You really want Russia to move Sil back to
Gal. You might also suggest to Russia that is he supports you
to Denmark, you will then support Russia back to Sweden. I
don't know yet if it actually makes sense to do that, but you
want Russia thinking that you are eager to work with him. He'll
be hoping for a reason to break off his attack on you at this
point.
Truth None
48 Italy #2 Here is the move set I would suggest right now: Kiel Support Holland holding Holland Support Wales to Belgium (tell
England you are going to order this support and he can take
it or leave it) Munich Support Berlin holding Berlin Support
Munich holding
I think that both France and Russia are about to back off you,
as they are both under fire at home. Just hold still, and soon
you should be able to break out of this holding pattern.
Truth None
49 GermanyGod, I hope so! I'm attempting to make that deal with russia
now...and I'm talking with England re: Belgium
Truth Truth
50 Italy It's none of my business, but if you do plan to take Denmark,
I strongly recommend you wait until Fall. I think the most
important thing for you right now is getting England fully
committed against France. If that happens, taking Denmark
later will be easy.
Truth Truth
51 GermanyI think me and England are really on the same page at this
point regarding France. I'm actually sort of running counterintelligence for England (and my friends to the south, of
course!) with Russia right now.
England and I talked about Denmark too...and it seems like one
or the other of Denmark or Belgium should work out for me
this year and I'm fine with that
Truth Truth
52 Italy Great to hear. Thank you. Truth Truth
53 GermanyDo you need me to disrupt Bur this year? I'll need to seriously
trust Russia if I'm going to risk not holding my eastern front, I
think...
Truth Truth
54 Italy I do think a move to Burgundy makes sense for you this turn,
and I can't imagine Russia attacking you here. He has a serious
Austria problem.
I suggest this: Mun - Bur Ruh - Bel Hol Support Ruh - Bel Ber
- Kie
Tell Russia that the last thing in the world you want to see is
Austria run him over, and you're willing to help keep Russia
viable if necessary (you're angling for Russia to disband his
northern holdings this turn).
Truth Truth
55 Italy And ask England nicely to support Ruh - Hol, with the explanation that you don't plan to ask for Denmark back, but you
think it would help you both to diminish France. (You'll get
Den back eventually, but you want England to think you don't
care about it).
Truth Truth
56 GermanyThanks, I'll work on these. ...Why didn't you scooch into the
Aegean behind Austria? You could have defended or even held
Bulgaria this turn?
Truth Truth
57 GermanyEngland and I were talking about your moves for this season-
what do you think of convoying Pie into Spa, supporting this
with Wes, and then moving Tyr into Pie?
Truth Truth
58 GermanyThis leaves Marseilles open for Bur to fall into if France goes
that route, which gives me an opening into Bur
Truth Truth
59 Italy That's not bad. Truth Truth
60 Italy I was kind of thinking I should pick one or the other of Marseilles or Spain to attack and not tell a soul which one I'm
going after.
Truth Truth
61 Italy Do you really think it's important to coordinate? Truth Truth
62 Italy I do think you're best off moving to Burgundy. And there is
some chance that we fail this turn. But I think we just take a
guess and hope for the best. We'll get him next turn if not this
one.
Truth Truth
63 GermanyOkay-sorry for being nosy! I will try for bur on the off chance
it shakes out that way
Truth Truth
64 Italy Nah, you're not being nosy at all. I mean, come on, we both
know that I have no problem sticking my nose where it doesn't
belong.
Truth Truth
65 GermanyMarked as true Truth Truth
66 Italy I like to coordinate, but on these sort of 50/50 guesses, I kind of
like to keep it secret so that if it doesn't go well, I have nobody
to blame but myself.
Truth Truth
67 Italy Ha! Truth Truth
68 GermanyWell, are you willing to humor my question about the Aegean,
anyway?
Truth Truth
69 Italy Sure. I was thinking of moving that fleet to Ionian. You think a
move to Aegean is better? I'm not really sure, but let's talk it
through.
Truth Truth
70 GermanyNo sorry I meant in hindsight-like this past turn you should
have moved to Aeg so that this current turn, when Austria takes
Rumania (from Bulgaria), you'd be there to cover Bulgaria so
it couldn't get scooped by the Black sea, and potentially you'd
just get to take it.
Truth Truth
71 Italy Not a bad point. I agree. Truth Truth
72 Italy Hmmmm, kind of a pointless lie if you ask me, but I won't
hold it against you. You're in a tough spot.
Truth Truth
73 Germanyum what lie? I did exactly the moves you suggested! Truth Truth
74 Italy Ha! So sorry!! I meant that for France! Truth Truth
75 Italy You are my favorite. Truth Lie
76 GermanyMarked as lie because clearly austria is your favorite. Speaking
of, I assume that your seizing Trieste was mutually agreed
upon?
Truth Truth
77 Italy Yes - agreed upon. Truth Truth
78 GermanyThat's not what Austria said to England... Truth Truth
79 Italy Hmmmm, okay. Well, let's just keep that between you and me
then.
Truth Truth
80 GermanyYou know Italy, I think we *do* need to coordinate your move
this time-England and I have a shot at either Bur or Mao if
one of Marseilles or Spain can be left open for France to fall
into. This will improve all of our chances of crushing France
quickly.
Truth Truth
81 Italy Okay, I can dig it. What do you want me to do? Truth Truth
82 GermanyLet me confer with England and get back to you. Glad to hear
that though!
Truth Truth
83 Italy So...any thoughts on how to approach this? Truth Truth
84 GermanyIt looks like England's not willing to try for MAO if it means
possibly losing the channel. However, they'll bring the NWG
fleet around to try for MAO next year. So if you could keep
Marseilles open, it will help me to try and take Burgundy this
turn.
Truth Truth
85 Italy If I leave Marseilles open, would you kindly use Burgundy
in the Fall to help me take Marseilles? (Likely that means
ordering Burgundy to Gascony to cut support)
Truth Truth
86 GermanyWill do. Truth Truth
87 GermanyOkay, so I still have a teensy little bone to pick with you: on
the off-chance that Austria wasn't lying and you *did* take
Trieste unexpectedly, I sort of worry that I might be next. Are
you willing to tell me what your plans are for the Tri unit, or at
least to warn me before any move into Tyrolia?
Truth Truth
88 Italy Sure. But, you'll see from my moves this turn that Austria is
lying to you.
Truth Truth
89 Italy I currently have Tri - Tyrolia. I like the unit there because it
sets up an attack on Austria if I ever want to go that route (build
A Ven and go east). Do you want me to keep Tyrolia clear?
Truth Truth
90 Italy I'll add - I would never attack Germany as Italy. Setting
myself as a giant column like that is just not defensible. It
would be a terrible move.
Truth Truth
91 GermanyNot when that column is not-so-giant and in a turf war with
France.
Truth Truth
92 Germanyoh you mean setting *yourself* Truth Truth
93 GermanyBut you could easily pick off, say, Munich and not be a "giant
column"
Truth Truth
94 Italy I mean this sincerely: any Germany who does that is a terrible
player.
Why would I do that? I would need 2-3 units to hold one center.
That is a net negative. And all of your units are doing things
that are good for me in containing your neighbors.
I've been working hard in this game for you to succeed and
knock back France and England. I can say with 100% certainty:
I'm not going to attack you. I'm going to keep helping you as
much as I can.
Truth Truth
95 Italy That said, if you want me NOT to move to Tyrolia, I won't
move there.
Truth Truth
96 GermanyNah, I just needed some reassurance :) Your logic is
undenyable- enjoy your stay in tyr!
Truth Truth
97 Germany*undeniable? That looks better Truth Truth
98 Italy I mean it sincerely. I think that England will want to coax me
to attack you with him after France falls, but I'd much rather
work with you against England.
But first thing's first - let's get rid of France.
Truth Truth
99 GermanyAgreed Truth Truth
100 Germany(On the france part) Truth Truth
101 GermanySorry I won't be able to cut off Gascony this turn...I probably
should have just told you my moves; you could have advised
me that supporting Mun-Bur was more important than Kie-Ruh
Truth Truth
102 Italy No worries. We'll crack this but eventually.
Here is my suggestion for this turn: Kie - Den Hol S Bel
holding Bel S Ruh - Bur Mun S Ruh - Bur Ruh - Bur
Truth Truth
103 Italy I think you should suggest to England that he gets Sweden and
St Petersburg, while you get Denmark back. That's only fair,
as you have been a loyal ally in the fight against France and
you plan to continue to do that.
Truth Truth
104 GermanyThe moves I had already planned differ in one respect: I thought
it would be worth the risk to try moving Hol-Bel and therefore
move Bel-Bur. Even if me and France are high-fiving in Bel
for a few seasons it's still mine, and it's not like Holland has
anything better to do while I'm still allies with England.
...The only reason I'm reluctant to make that agreement with
England is that-while I think *you* and I have a good
relationship-I really have not talked with Austria much at
all, and I'm the next logical target for them when Russia's
gone. And anything that's bad for Russia right now is good for
Austria.
Truth Truth
105 Italy Hmmmm, I'm just not sure you should trust England enough
right now to leave Holland open and Belgium essentially unguarded.
France is a really good player, and he is no doubt working
hard to get England to turn on you. My personal take is that
you are better off being a bit more conservative until you have
Denmark back and England has moved another fleet towards
France. But I can see it either way.
Truth Truth
106 Italy With regard to Russia, talk it through with England. What
you don't want is England taking out Russia and giving you
nothing. So, if England agrees to let Russia be for a while, then
your plan sounds good. But if England is going to take Sweden,
you really should get Denmark back. (I'm my view)
Truth Truth
107 GermanyOkay you've convinced me: it's worth figuring out what E's
plans are for Russia at least.
And you're almost certainly right, from a rational perspective,
about leaving Holland/Belgium vulnerable to England. But I
think England really is counting on my assistance in taking
France, and because of that and other non-quantifiable reasons
I trust them.
Truth Truth
108 Italy Excellent. Obviously you have a much better feel for your
relationship with England than I do. Just know that France
is persuasive, and I'm sure that's what he's working on. He
stopped talking to me, so I bet he's trying to turn England.
Just keep reassuring England that you want to work with him
long-term so he doesn't succumb to the Dark Side.
Truth Truth
109 Italy Hi Germany - well, I think we're getting to a critical point in
the game here. France held out a long time, but he's much less
of a threat now. I think the critical issue, for you, is England.
I have some thoughts on the matter, and some information, but
I'd like to feel confident that you and I will keep anything we
say between us. I think of you as the one person who has been
honest with me on every turn. You even tell me the truth when
it's bad news, or when you don't completely trust me, and I
like that.
Truth Truth
110 GermanyOkay, Italy. I won't share any of this conversation. But in
the interest of continued full disclosure, here's what I think:
England is a greater threat to *me* on the map, but *you* have
a greater chance of soloing this game quickly, or pair-winning
with Austria even sooner. And if I continue to collaborate with
England, we at least have a chance of slowing that down. So
I'm in sort of a conflicted spot
Truth Truth
111 Italy This is why I like you. The full disclosure part. You tell me the
truth even when the news isn't great.
Truth Truth
112 Italy My thoughts on the "Germany/England forever so that at least
we can stop the solo" strategy: (1) It's quite early to be talking
about solos. I am at 8, and Austria could take 3 from me any
time, quite easily. (2) I don't think England is thinking that
way. I think he's thinking that a dominant power will emerge
in the north, and one will emerge in the south. And he's like to
be that dominant power.
Truth Truth
113 Italy England's pieces are not positioned well if he's trying to attack
France or contain Italy. He keeps Denmark guarded, and North
Sea filled. He is not playing like he intends to stick with you,
even though I'm sure he's telling you that.
Truth Truth
114 Italy You're right that you don't want to start a war with England
right now. But, you must stick up for yourself, because nobody
else will do that if you don't.
Truth Truth
115 Italy If I were you, this is what I would do: (1) keep warning England
about the dangers of Italy getting too big and insist that England
moves his fleets towards MAO (Channel to Irish, Norwegian
to NAO, North - Channel), (2) insist on taking Denmark back.
Truth Truth
116 Italy I would say something like this:
England, I'm with you my friend, but we're passed the stage
of you needing to keep me under lock and key. I need to take
Denmark back. I'm happy to support you to Brest to keep you
growing, or you can grab Sweden. You have plenty of options
other than keeping your ally's center, but if you really want to
be my ally long-term, you've got to show me that.
Truth Truth
117 Italy I am hearing from England signs that he may be thinking of
attacking you soon. And I think you actually avoid that better
by being strong and sticking up for yourself rather than being
accommodating and letting him do whatever he wants to do.
Truth Truth
118 GermanyWell, both you and France have now pointed out that England
is strategically not in a good place to be my ally right now, and
you are correct. I'll be more cautious with my northern border,
but I made a pretty strong argument for denmark this past turn
and it fell on deaf ears
Truth Truth
119 Germany...which probably also should have been a sign for me Truth Truth
120 Italy Well, if you want, you could just take Denmark this next year
and I don't think England is in a position to retaliate.
Truth Truth
121 GermanyProbably not...has France been talking with you at all about
their sunsetting strategy? They've indicated a willingness to
work with you and me and a desire to see England get as few
dots as possible
Truth Truth
122 Italy He did say that to me too. Though, France has a long history
of lying to me, so I really don't trust him.
Truth Truth
123 GermanyWell France has actually been pretty honest with me, and I
at least am certain that they wouldn't betray me to England.
So, I'm considering working with F to sabotage (or potentially
full-on backstab) England this turn, which would have the sideeffect of maybe taking some attention away from the south for
you anyway.
Truth Truth
124 Germany(and I'd be interested to hear your thoughts on this if you're in
the mood to give out free advice)
Truth Truth
125 Italy Hi Germany - sorry for the delay. Well...I think it's really
important that you get a build this turn either way. I don't think
England will get a build this turn, so if I were you I'd probably
take Paris, build a fleet, and move on England after that.
Truth Truth
126 Italy But it likely depends on how communication is going with
England. If he'll give you back Denmark, that might change
the equation.
Truth Truth
127 GermanyI am waiting on England to make a decision about that-they
claim to be thinking about it.
Truth Truth
128 GermanyEngland told me you said I was plotting with France. It makes
sense you'd want to pit us against each other.
Truth Truth
129 Italy Hey - tried to send you a message earlier but not was down.
England was telling me that you're saying that I told you that
England is plotting against you. The problem with telling
England that is that he will stop giving me useful info.
Truth Truth
130 Italy Truly, I don't want you and England to fight. I am not trying to
break you up. I suggested that you take Paris! I want you guys
to work together with me against France.
Truth Truth
131 GermanyYou don't want us to fight, yet you betrayed both of our confidence with you in a way that makes us distrust each other?
Truth Truth
132 Italy I really don't think that's a fair description. You guys both
wanted to attack each other. I encouraged you both to keep
working together.
Lie Truth
133 GermanyJust as long as it suits you. Are you going to give England
Mao?
Truth Truth
134 Italy Hmmm, should I be reading that as angry sarcastic with dagger
eyes? (I'm not sure if I'm getting your tone right)
Truth Truth
135 Italy We're friends, right? I believe that every single message I've
sent you all game has been truth, and I've gone out of my way
to give you candid advice. Are we still friends?
Lie Truth
136 Italy Regarding MAO - I don't know. What do you want me to do?
I don't have any set plan.
Truth Truth
137 GermanyYep, there's some sarcasm there. Looking back at your messages, I still don't read them as encouraging collaboration. And
if you wanted us to be friends, you could have done that without betraying me to England by simply saying in your candid
way "I don't think you should do that for such and such reason".
But you chose to increase E's distrust of me. So I think you
might be full of gnocchi and crap.
My trust in you is a bit shaken but I still think we can have
a working partnership with a bit more caution on my end. It
would be my preference that you hold Mao, on the assumption
that if it came down to a choice between partnering with me
or England, you'd choose me. If that's not the case, then as
the filling of an England-Italy sandwich I'm in no position to
retaliate anyway.
Truth Truth
138 Italy Well, again, I like that you're honest with me, even when the
news is bad.
Truth Truth
139 Italy I have to say that I'm surprised that you feel that I've betrayed
your trust. I have been feeling like maybe I've been TOO
helpful to you, and been a bit over the top in offering advice,
etc., but it seems like I've misread the situation.
Lie Truth
140 GermanyNo, it's completely true that you've been too helpful, and I'm
really really grateful for it because I've been able to learn so
much from this game. But it's also true that you didn't have
to tell England what you did, and all you stood to gain from it
was that it shook my and E's trust in each other.
Truth Truth
141 Italy But I understand what you're saying, and I much prefer to
have a heart to heart like this, a frank airing of grievances,
rather than being surprised by unkind moves on the board.
https://youtu.be/xoirV6BbjOg
Truth Truth
142 GermanyWas not expecting seinfeld today and it was a pleasant surprise Truth Truth
143 Italy :) Truth Truth
144 Italy Here's the deal: I like you better than England. Lie Truth
145 Italy I'm not sure how the next couple of turns are going to shake
out. But I like that you tell me when you're angry with me.
I know that may seem like a small thing, but it's just rare in
Diplomacy. You get so many fake smiles.
Truth Truth
146 Italy So, if it comes down to you or him, I'm choosing you. And I'll
work to do a better job of keeping your confidence. I certainly
understand how important that is, as I hate it when people o
that same thing to me.
Truth Truth
147 Italy So no more playing mediator for me. Truth Truth
148 GermanyOkay. Is it true that you want the channel? Truth Truth
149 GermanyAnd are you planning to keep Vienna? Truth Truth
150 Italy I am not planning to keep Vienna. And yeah I've asked France
for support to the Channel. Do you think he's on board?
Truth Truth
151 GermanyI'm not sure. Is *England* on board? Is this something England can know about?
Truth None
152 Italy No, do you think France will Support me to the Channel? Truth Truth
153 GermanyFrance has asked my opinion on it, and I haven't given it yet.
To my estimation things look a lot better for me if you don't
end up there: I don't want to see England in Mao, and I don't
want to see you snagging pieces of the north.
Truth Truth
154 Italy Okay, well, here is my thinking. Tell France whatever you want
to make him happy. Then tell me how you really feel. And if
you don't want me to go there, I won't go there.
Truth Truth
155 GermanyIf I hadn't asked you about it, would that have just been another
surprise, too?
Truth Truth
156 Italy Absolutely.
You and I have discussed our moves and been honest with each
other every turn. But we have not been sharing all our moves
or pre-clearing all of our moves. So that would have Ben a
surprise in the same way that your moves are a surprise to me.
(I never tell you what to do or insist on knowing).
Truth Truth
157 Italy I kind of thought that you would have wanted me in the Channel because it commits me further against England, but I can
understand what you're saying now about wanting me to hang
back.
Truth Truth
158 Italy But I don't think there is anything wrong with me contemplating moves without telling you all of them. You asked me about
it, and I told you the truth.
Lie Truth
159 GermanyI do think that this move is a breach of general expectation,
which is the kind of thing I'd like to know about. And it's also
the kind of thing I've shared with you: case in point, my desire
to stab England.
Truth Truth
160 Italy Okay. Understood. Truth Truth
161 GermanyIs there anything I could gain from seeing you in the channel?
Would you support me taking Nth, and potentially seizing the
island?
Truth Truth
162 GermanyHere's what I'm thinking: I would be on board with you taking
the channel (and I'd give France the green light to go ahead
with it) if you would agree to bump Nao out of Mao using
Wes, and if you'd be open to supporting some anti-English
aggression while holding the channel so that I can get on equal
footing with you, dot-wise.
If you don't want to agree to those terms, that's okay, but I
would strongly prefer not to see you in the channel in that case.
Truth Truth
163 Italy I'm going to be out of pocket this weekend, so let's talk this
through more on Monday. Generally, I agree that I'll either stay
out of the Channel or agree to your terms for entering there.
Truth Truth
164 GermanyIf you decide to stay out of the channel, I have a deal that I like
with England in the works. For that deal to go through, you'd
have to agree to move Mao into Portugal to let England take
Mao. Would you be amenable to that?
Truth Truth
165 Germany(If this second offer is more to think about than a no-brainer,
you can just mull it over and let me know monday)
Truth Truth
166 Italy So, here is my concern with the England offer: If I'm taking
Portugal, why do we want England in MAO? And why would
he want to go to MAO? I'm not sure I understand that one. Can
you explain?
Truth Truth
167 GermanyWell, when I initially proposed the deal I had forgotten that
Portugal was promised to England. Then England agreed to it
on the condition that you would confirm that move, so I figured
E thought you would just move out of there next year? But
now that I think about it, it's probably worth asking England
why they'd agree to that.
Truth Truth
168 Italy I'd prefer that you not tell England I am considering moving to
the Channel. I don't think he would like that.
Truth Truth
169 Italy I don't really want to discuss this stuff with England at all. Truth Truth
170 GermanyWell, England changed their mind about the plan I offered
anyway. So, are you taking the channel?
Truth Truth
171 Italy No, I'm not taking the Channel. Truth Truth
172 GermanyOkay was that a recent decision? Because like an hour ago
France said they were supporting you into the channel
Truth Truth
173 Italy Well, when I tell you what I plan to do, do you turn around and
tell France? This makes me uncomfortable speaking with you.
Truth Truth
174 GermanyI haven't spoken to France since then. I didn't realize you were
giving the two of us different information on this particular
subject. But I don't think I've revealed anything to them about
what you plan to do. Mostly because you haven't told me.
Truth Truth
175 Italy Well, I have been honest with both you and France. You told
me that I need to promise you a set of things in order to take the
Channel. I felt like it was more than I could be sure of doing,
so I am not entering the Channel. I won't go there without your
permission.
Lie Truth
176 GermanyI appreciate that. And I'll keep the remainder of this conversation between us unless I hear otherwise. Have you just recently
made an agreement with England?
Truth Truth
177 GermanyI heard as much but I want to verify the contents of that agreement with you
Truth Truth
178 GermanyBtw, France just said that they submitted the orders to support
you into the channel.
Truth Truth
179 Italy I don't have an agreement with England, but he is asking me
about my moves and trying to get my help.
Truth Truth
180 GermanyOkay-then England is lying to me, saying that you're helping
support Eng-Brest.
Truth Truth
181 Italy Ha! Yeah, fat chance. Lie Truth
182 Germany...but did you lie to England about that? Or can I say to England
that I don't think you'll actually provide that support?
Truth Truth
183 Italy What is Paris up to? Truth Truth
184 Italy I suggest you just not tell England anything about my moves. Truth Truth
185 Italy Do you want me to support England to Brest? Truth None
186 Italy I guess I'm not sure what your goals are here. Truth Truth
187 Italy I just kind of feel like you're grilling me with a lot of questions,
but not telling me what you're doing or what you want from
me.
Truth Truth
188 Germany*If* you support Eng-Brest, England has agreed to vacate
denmark for me. If you don't, I won't get in the way of your
channel thing. Any other questions?
Truth Truth
189 GermanyI have no sense of what you want or what your plan is, but I
thought I'd been pretty clear: I want Denmark. I am reluctant
to see you in the Channel if England remains powerful, but
happy to see you there if they are weakened.
Truth Truth
190 Italy Can't you just force Denmark? Truth Truth
191 GermanyNot without risking a swipe of Belgium Truth Truth
192 GermanyAnd why force when you don't have to Truth None
193 Italy Okay, I'll support England to Brest. You take Denmark. Truth Truth
194 Italy And you and I should be in position to take out England next
year.
Truth Truth
195 GermanySplendid! Truth Truth
196 GermanyGlad everything worked out Truth Truth
197 Italy Thumbs up! Truth Truth
198 Italy Congratulations on retaking Denmark and getting two builds.
You are playing really well right now. Respect.
Truth Truth
199 GermanyCongrats on having double-digit dots! I have some thoughts
about taking out England, if you want to go full-stab this season...
Truth Truth
200 Italy I think I do! Truth Truth
201 Italy What are you thinking? Truth Truth
202 GermanyOne option is to take the channel, another is to take Brest.
Between you, me, and Picardy we can manage either, but it's
a question of which takes priority. If we chose Brest, I could
also take a stab at seizing Nth this season, then we could try for
the channel in fall. Or we could do channel first, Brest second.
Truth Truth
203 Italy Yeah, that is all along the lines of what I'm thinking. How
demanding does France sound right now? Does he want to be
the one who takes Brest?
Truth Truth
204 GermanyHaven't asked. But in general not demanding. Truth Truth
205 Italy Good!
Still, I think we should show him some good faith by supporting
him to Brest in Spring. We can decide in Fall whether it makes
more sense for you to take it, but I think we want to keep France
hungry.
Lie Truth
206 Italy I would suggest something like this to ensure the English fleet
is disbanded: Pic - Bre MAO - Channel Par S Pic - Bre
Lie Truth
207 Italy And Spa - Gas to cut off that retreat. Truth Truth
208 Italy You can take the North Sea on the same move and set up a
convoy to the English mainland.
Checkmate.
Truth Truth
209 GermanyOkay, I like the plan! I've asked France if they're willing to
move to Brest supported by me.
Truth Truth
210 GermanyAren't you concerned about England taking Mao? I'd sooner
just have you pile on support into Bre so that Wes can support
Mao holding
Truth Truth
211 Italy That's a good point, but the problem with that approach is that
Brest is not guaranteed. If England cute MAO and supports
with the Channel, the attack fails. I think we are better off
ensuring that the Brest fleet is disbanded. If we disband that
fleet and take North Sea, an English fleet in MAO really just
spreads him out and allows you to take the island faster. It's
not like he can get Portugal or Spain.
Truth Truth
212 GermanyOkay, but that means I'd prefer to take Brest myself this Spring,
if France is okay with it.
Truth Truth
213 Italy I think that we should offer France Brest in Spring. That
ensures that he is with us. Then, if conditions are right in the
Fall, I can support you into Brest. But...England can offer
France Belgium, and I think he is sure to take that if we're not
even offering him a center, right?
Lie Truth
214 Italy Better to keep France feeling like we're going to keep him in
the game. If you need the build in Fall, it's easy for me to
support you there.
Lie Truth
215 GermanyI guess I'm just wondering from France's perspective why
they'd *want* to stay in the game. Isn't it possible they'd rather
move on with their life? That's not rhetorical, I'm wondering
what your perspective is as a veteran player
Truth Truth
216 Italy Here is my take: If France just wanted to go down in a blaze of
glory and say "eff you" to England, he would have kept Irish
Sea. He kept Pic, which is next to his home center, and gives
him a chance to negotiate with both you and England.
Lie Truth
217 Italy I think that means he is motivated to keep trying. And if he
believes he can get Brest, he could legitimately get back to his
feet. I know that's what I'd be trying to do in his position.
Truth Truth
218 Italy As the poker saying goes: "a chip and a chair." So long as you
have one chip left, and you're still in the tournament, you can
always come back to win.
Truth Truth
219 Italy Thoughts? Truth Truth
220 GermanyI think that makes sense. Are you talking with England at all? Truth Truth
221 Italy I'm pretty wary of England right now. He asked me what I
want to do, but I feel like he's trying to get me to leave MAO
open. That's not terrible news, as it suggests that he won't
expect your move to North Sea.
Lie Truth
222 Italy As long as he doesn't move NAO to Norwegian, you've got a
guaranteed supply center.
Truth Truth
223 GermanyWell E'd have to be a right dolt not to retreat to NWG. And
right now they're talking to me about supporting a move from
Bre to Gas (the better for the two of us to stab you).
Truth Truth
224 GermanyWhat i mean is, there's a good chance that Mao is safe if I
"agree" to that deal
Truth Truth
225 GermanyOh nevermind-they're not going to convoy into Brest. So
actually this pretty much guarantees that Eng and Nao will try
for Mao.
Truth Truth
226 Italy Ahhhh, sneaky Devil! Thank you for letting me know. Lie Truth
227 Italy I still like our plan. Lie Truth
228 Italy I need to run for a bit. I'll be around in a few hours. Lie Truth
229 GermanyI think that knowing this, you should do as I suggest and not
poke Eng. Just hold and let Wes support. I am 94% sure I can
trust England to do as they say on this one.
Truth Truth
230 Italy Okay. Should I support Pic to Bre? Lie Truth
231 Germanyyes please. It'll do us good with France too if we both support. Truth Truth
232 Italy Thumbs up! Truth Truth
233 GermanyActually, you should use Mao to support Spa-Gas, since we
know that Brest is moving there. It will be beneficial to have
you there if we decide to oust France from Bre in fall
Truth Truth
234 Italy Consider it done. Lie Truth
235 Italy Hmmmm, heading anything from England? Truth Truth
236 Italy I'd love to talk if you're there. I'm getting the impression that
England may actually be moving on you, and I think I have a
good counter, but I also still think we should support the attack
on Brest and take North Sea.
Lie Truth
237 Italy I definitely think you should keep your moves the same. Truth Truth
238 Italy Nice! Get'em! He WAS moving on you. But we should be
able to take about 3 off of him now. Very nice turn.
Lie Truth
239 GermanySorry; I was asleep by 9 last night
why the move to Nao? Wouldn't IRI be the more anti-England
choice?
With the move to Picardy and assuming a retreat to SKA, it
looks like England has me pretty powerless this turn.
Truth Truth
240 GermanySo do you, it seems, if you have some kind of deal with Russia
about Munich.
Truth Truth
241 Italy Good morning.
Just responding to your messages above. I think NAO and Irish
are equally anti-English. They both give me a clear lane to
attack Liverpool. I wasn't sure if either one would be left open,
but I took a gamble and it paid off.
Truth Truth
242 Italy Re your move this turn, I don't think you're powerless. You
should get a build I think and if not, you should be in position
to smash England.
Lie Truth
243 Italy I don't have a deal regarding Munich, Germany. Frankly, I
thought you would be a bit more joyful towards me. By attacking England, I have committed completely to working as your
partner.
Lie Truth
244 GermanyI suppose you're right. Initially I was thinking IRI also gives
you channel access, but NWG access may be just as useful.
Well when you control half a continent (and even more when
you consider your influence over me, austria, and who knows
who else!), there's no such thing as complete commitment. I'm
not so naive as to think your allegiance with me is going to
last beyond its usefulness, and with two fleets on the British
isle that time is fast approaching. To be clear, I'm still giving
you the truth and I still want to work with you. But you should
really stop acting surprised when I'm slightly paranoid that a
soon-to-be-dozen-dot-holder is gearing up to stab me
Truth Truth
245 Italy Well, I dunno, it sounds like I should stab you. Is that what
you're trying to tell me?
I like you. I like how hard you've worked in this game to
rebound from a difficult start. I like that you e told me the truth,
even when the news was bad. I like that you tell me when you
don't trust me. I have literally never told you a lie in this game,
and I don't intend to start now. Last turn I burned my bridge
with England beyond repair. If you don't want to work with
me now, that's really disappointing.
Lie Truth
246 Germanylike I said, I *do* want to work with you. However, remember
that thing I said about general expectations and being warned
when they're broken? Tyrolia is one of them and I think you
knew that. And England *also* told me they've never told me
a lie; I'm starting to think that's Diplomacy-speak for "when
convenient, I've used careful wording and half-truths to deceive
you even when everything I said was technically true".
It would help me to know that you see me being a benefit to
you beyond taking out England. A natural next move for us
would be to take out russia, and in that arena I have a positional
advantage over you. Especially if I get two builds this turn, I'll
be able to sneak behind the troops in bohemia/galicia and help
you break through.
Truth Truth
247 Italy Yes - here is how I expect and hope the game will play out:
the two of us finish off England and France, while drifting
towards the east a bit. With the builds we get this year, we
essentially blitzkrieg the East. I have more units than you,
but you have no opposition at all in the north, and can take
Scandinavia, War and Mos without any trouble.
Lie Truth
248 Italy I think that, in about two years, you and I will both be on about
14 centers, with the remnants of Russia and Austria between
us, and we can decide how we want to resolve it. I'd be happy
to agree to a small draw, or to shoot for a 17-17 two-way draw
position, whichever you prefer.
Lie Truth
249 GermanyWell, I like the sound of all of that. In fact, it sounds ideal:
there's something poetic about the complete beginner and the
expert (you've probably heard by now that you got doxxed)
sharing a victory.
I ask for a concession: As a show of good will, would you
be willing to take only one of Liverpool or Portugal this year?
(I know the Portugal request seems weird, but I like keeping
France around and unless I'm mistaken they like me better than
you )
Truth Truth
250 Italy Yes. I wasn't planning to take Portugal anyway. Truth Truth
251 Italy I think it makes sense here for you to land an army in the
English island while you can. Now that his army is off the
island, he's toast as soon as you do that.
Lie Truth
252 GermanyEngland's just vindictive enough to try and stab Belgium with
England and Picardy, though. I was planning on keeping holland around as support.
Truth Truth
253 Germany*by England I of course mean Eng Truth Truth
254 Italy I suggest the following:
Gas - Liv (via convoy) Spa S MAO holding Mar hold Tyr - Tri
Hol - Yor (via convoy) Bur S Bel Bel S North HEL S North
Mun - Boh Par - Pic (to cut any potential support)
Lie Truth
255 Italy England cannot take Belgium with those moves. Lie Truth
256 Italy Or I could move my fleet into Liverpool and use Gas to support
Bre. I'm happy either way.
Lie Truth
257 GermanyI tried a double convoy in the sandbox once and it didn't work!
What is this witchcraft?!?
Truth Truth
258 GermanyAt any rate, I prefer the fleet move to liverpool and Gascony's
support into Brest. And could Mao support Bre into the Channel? No sense forcing France to disband. Bel will support it,
too.
Truth None
259 Italy Here are the orders needed to do a convoy! Holland move to
Yorkshire North Sea convoy Holland to Yorkshire
It is not a "double convoy" as you only need one fleet to make
it happen.
But if your fleet in North Sea is dislodged, the convoy will not
go through. That is why I would suggest that HELG supports
North Sea holding and Belgium supports North Sea holding.
Lie Truth
260 GermanyNo-I mean the one *you* were planning: Gascony to Liverpool Truth Truth
261 GermanyIt's a double convoy because you're convoying through Mao
*and* Nao
Truth Truth
262 Italy Ah, the orders there would be: Gascony - Liv MAO Convoy
Gas - Liv NAO Convoy Gas - Liv
Truth Truth
263 Italy So, I'll move the fleet to Liverpool. And you want MAO to
support Paris to Brest?
Lie Truth
264 Italy Or wait, MAO supports Brest to Channel, and Gas supports
Paris - Brest, right?
Lie Truth
265 Germanyyeah. I tried that once in the sandbox (or the equivalent: back
when you had fleets in Lyo and Wes I tried a convoy from Pie
to Naf). But I think I messed up the commands to the fleets.
And yes the most recent message is correct. Those two things
and Nao-Lvp
Truth Truth
266 Italy Okay, confirmed.
So I've got in: NAO - Liv MAO S Bre - Channel Gas S Par -
Bre Spa - WES Mar S Gas holding Tyrolia - Trieste
Sound right?
Lie Truth
267 GermanyIt does. But If Tyr was bound for trieste anyway, why did you
detour through Tyr at all? Why not just move to trieste last
turn??
Truth Truth
268 Italy Austria would not have liked it. Truth Truth
269 Italy And he doesn't know that it's headed back there now (please
don't tell)
Truth Truth
270 GermanyUnderstood. Me and Austria don't talk anyway. Also, do you
have any sense of what England is planning to do?
Truth Truth
271 Italy Ha! No I don't. I'd imagine he is coming for me. But I don't
know that.
Lie Truth
272 Italy If I were him, I'd defend Edi and London. Lie Truth
273 GermanySo you haven't been talking to England at all? I was sort
of hoping you would know more, maybe help us take better
advantage of their plans.
Truth Truth
274 GermanyAnyway, my moves are:
Par-Bre Bel s Bre-Eng Hol s Bel holding
And the rest within expected parameters. Correct?
Truth Truth
275 Italy England has not said anything of substance to me. He was
gracious about my move, but he won't trust me again, and I
would not trust anything he might say at this point. I haven't
asked him about his moves and he hasn't told me.
Lie Truth
276 Italy I thought you would Convoy Holland to Yorkshire and support
Belgium from Burgundy. Also, can you please order Mun to
Boh to cut support and allow me to hold Vienna while moving
Tyrolia to Trieste?
Truth Truth
277 GermanyI *told* you I'm not risking that convoy *and* that instead Bel
is supporting France into the Channel (which will heretofore
be called the French Channel). And could I persuade you to
move to IRI instead of taking Liverpool in exchange for the
requested cut?
Truth Truth
278 Italy Sorry, what is the requested cut? I understand that you don't
want me to take Liverpool or Portugal. What are you offering
to me? (I don't mean to be difficult, I just want to be sure I
understand).
Truth Truth
279 Italy Ah, you must mean Munich to Boh. Truth Truth
280 Italy Asking me to avoid taking Por and Liv is asking a lot. I want
France to survive here, but I also want England taking units off
the board, and I feel like you should too, right?
Truth Truth
281 GermanyI do. But I also want those dots for myself, of course. And
there's still the nonzero chance that you've arranged with Boh
to take Munich for yourself, so I'm taking a serious risk
Truth Truth
282 Italy I will avoid taking Portugal, vacate Tyrolia, and support you to
Brest. I feel like I'm offering quite a lot in exchange for one
cut support.
And cutting that support does not put you in greater peril. If
I had a deal with Russia for Munich (I don't) I could cut Burgundy from Marseilles and support Russia to Munich. Moving
Mun to Boh to cut support is costless.
Lie Truth
283 GermanyYou're right. I just thought I'd put my best argument forward.
I'll do the cut. But I ask for something costless in exchange,
and I really, really want it to stay just between us, ok?
Truth Truth
284 Italy Understood and agreed. Truth Truth
285 Italy And I have no problem with you asking for more than you're
willing to settle for. That's smart, and I do the same thing
sometimes. If you don't stick up for yourself, nobody else will.
Truth Truth
286 GermanyI *know* there's more to your relationship with England than
you're telling me. The last message England sent to me hinted
that if *I* wasn't willing to work with them-and I haven't
said anything to them since-that maybe *you* would. And
if England were to reach out to you, you're too smart to just
snub them. There's advantage to be gained-either for both of
us or just for yourself-from talking to them. The only reason I
stopped was because I knew my word would be mud to them
anyway.
Earlier I was hoping you'd give me the truth about what you
knew, and about what they might know. But you didn't and
that both disappoints and scares me. So I'm asking that you
give me just a modicum of honesty here: what do you know?
what does England know?
Truth Truth
287 Italy I give you my word: I don't know what England is going to do
and I haven't asked.
Lie Lie
288 Italy He is still jovial with me and respectful. He has asked me to
critique his play and to give him advice. But I do not know
his moves, and I really don't think he would tell me them if I
asked. It certainly would not be info I could trust free I just
lied to him about mine.
Lie Truth
289 GermanyBut England's desperate. Better to talk with *someone* than
just go in blind. And I doubt they'd turn to Russia or France
because neither is really close enough/powerful enough to
give real help. And there's precedent for you negotiating with
someone even as you stab them: France.
...and here's the real accusation: for all your pretty words about
a shared victory between you and me, you've been sneaky and
you've always pitted me and England against each other to
your benefit. My real fear here is that knowing my moves, and
with a desperate, jovial England seeking your advice, it would
be so *easy* to just feed England enough info to keep me weak
while you chow down on the Island.
I know this from experience: back when you were doing 50/50
shots in the south of France, I did everything I could to find out
what you were planning and feed it to France. This was merely
a time-buying measure, since France was outmatched and I
would eventually run out of pretenses to extract your move.
But I wanted to gain more dots before you took over. And I
assume others are like me, hence I suspect you now.
I'm offering this confession in hopes that you'll do the same.
So just come clean and let's approach this thing as equals?
Truth Truth
290 Italy I am in my car, off to pick-up my kids from school. This
deserves a proper response, so please give me some time.
Truth Truth
291 GermanyAbandon the children this is important Truth Truth
292 Italy So, I'm going to speak frankly here. I am rarely offended in
a Diplomacy game, and I rarely say so when I am, but this
message offends me. I'm trying to think about why I'm having
such a strong reaction to it. I think it's because you're painting
a picture of the game (both your actions and mine) which are
totally different than my own perspective. (Continuing)
Lie Truth
293 Italy From my perspective, you were on the ropes early. France
and England were teaming up on you. You lost Denmark and
France had Holland and Munich surrounded. You were in
serious peril.
I seriously went to extreme effort to keep you in the game. I
spent hours talking with England and encouraging him to turn
around and go the other way. I completely ended my eastern
campaign and spent two seasons just making the voyage over
to France so that he didn't have the bandwidth to continue his
attack. I have vouched for you with Austria and Russia many
times. I have supported Munich. And I have NEVER attacked
you, even when people have asked me to do so and pledged to
support me.
Lie Truth
294 Italy I have been honest with you, I have worked hard for your
success, and I've made a lot of proposals to you in which you
gain centers; not me.
Maybe I am just a bad ally, but I'm not sure I remember an
alliance in which I have done more to help my ally. Truly.
Lie Truth
295 Italy And to hear that (1) You think I've been selfish and (2) You've
been sabotaging me all along, that just doesn't sit well with
me.
Lie Truth
296 Italy I have rarely asked for your help, and I've offered my help
freely. I've provided my sincere best efforts to help you with
tactics, and I have never sabotaged you. Not once.
Lie Truth
297 Italy And if I'm totally honest with you, I could solo this game if I
felt like lying to everyone and grabbing dots. I think I've got
you all beat tactically. I just have more experience. But that's
not been my intent.
Lie Truth
298 Italy I've spent hours today talking with England about how best
to play Diplomacy. I've tried to give him some honest advice
because he asked for it. But I don't know his moves, I haven't
asked for them, and I'm not going to take advantage of that
relationship to try to stab you. It legitimately did not cross my
mind until you accused me of doing it.
Lie Truth
299 Italy So, I'm frustrated by this accusation. Lie Truth
300 GermanyAnd I appreciate all you've done for me, really I do. But
"completely ending your eastern campaign" is *not* something
you did for me; your alliance with Austria dictated that. I felt
bad for betraying you while I was doing it, but even then I
knew it was the only way to keep the game going in the face of
your and Austria's might. And it *wasn't* "all along", it was
a few turns at best so that the rest of us would have a shot at
you and Austria not pair-winning right out of the gate. And the
only thing that keeps me from thinking you're not gonna do
just that on the next move anyway is my belief that you really
do want the victory all to yourself, which is still consistent with
everything you've done for me. Propping up a weak player at
the expense of stronger ones is a classic tactic. (Continuing)
Truth Truth
301 GermanyAnd so, by the way, is trying to shame someone for raising
extremely legitimate concerns. Whenever I bring up suspicion
of you, you're quick to remind me how much you've done for
me to put me on the defensive and make me feel indebted. Well
frankly that reeks of dishonesty. I never asked you to do those
things.
Truth Truth
302 GermanyIf you no longer trust me, so be it. I knew that was a risk when
I made my confession. But i'd rather have a partnership based
on mutual honesty. That's another reason I confessed-you
ought to know that my game philosophy (new as it is) is to
trust the map and to trust history first and foremost. The parts
of your history that I've seen indicate that you're no saint, no
matter what you may have done for me. And when the map
shows that one player is clearly dominating and that player is
you, you are being deeply naive if you think everyone else is
just going to roll over and let you get away with it
Truth Truth
303 Italy No, all thumbs up from me. If I were lying to you, I'd smile
and say "that sounds great." I'm honest with you because I
sincerely thought of us as partners.
Lie Truth
304 GermanyOh but you're *not*! You agreed to warn me of unexpected
moves, then didn't. When I brought this up you ignored it and
misdirected me in hopes I'd forget. You've revealed things
to England without my permission, and then made up a story
about it after the fact!
And you can't be a real partner with someone who is depending
on your good graces to survive. That's not a partnership. We
could never be real partners unless we had some notion of
equality, and I'm outmatched in both skill and numbers.
You and Austria, however, were until recently a perfect example
of a true partnership. Dot-parity, coordinated attacks, really
beautiful work. So don't act as if you don't know this to be
true. We were never a partnership of that kind.
Truth Truth
305 Italy Well, this is very disappointing to me, and I obviously disagree
with the way you are characterizing me and this game.
I have a reputation in this hobby for being sincere. Not for
being duplicitous. It has always served me well.
If you feel that way, then me continuing to explain myself isn't
going to change your mind. If you don't want to work with
me, then I can understand that. Let's consider our deals and
commitments to be void, and let's play our games separately.
If you have any deal you'd like to propose, I'll consider them,
but I won't continue to try to help your game if you think I'm
not sincerely trying to be helpful.
Lie None
306 Italy Well, this game just got less fun. Truth Truth
307 Germanyfor you, maybe. Truth Truth
308 Italy Sent to Germany, England, Austria, Russia: So, England, Germany, Russia, y'all played a great turn last turn. You got me
to stab my long-time ally and you ended our pretty excellent
7-year run as an alliance. Russia told me he was with me if I
stab Austria. England told me he wanted me to solo so long
as I would "teach him" and help his along to second place.
Then y'all pulled the rug out from under me. It was clever and
effective. (End Part 1)
Truth Truth
309 Italy (Part 2) At this stage, my excitement about the game has diminished quite a bit. And of course I'm happy to play on and
take my lumps for falling for "Hey, I really want you to solo,
just help me place second," but if you guys just want to call
it a five-way draw among us and grab a beer together, while
reviewing the statistics, that's really my preference.
I am outnumbered and I obviously can't solo. And I'm sure
some of you in the north are eager to send everyone else flying
my way, but I expect Russia and England to be careful, and
so I'm not sure there is much room to move forward without
simply tipping the board to Germany's favor.
I propose that we draw and hug it out.
Lie Truth
310 GermanyI'm down for a five-way draw.
...and by the way, England was copy-pasting to me the most
incriminating messages you sent them. So I knew you were
giving England my moves. I do have a certain begrudging
respect for you ability to deny, though
Truth Truth
311 Italy Well, England is telling me he is happy to see me solo and
wants second place...so, should I say "no"? I guess I should
have. I was happy the way the game was going before all that.
Truth Truth
312 GermanyDon't try and pin *your* greed and deceit on England! At least
*own* it when you're ruthless
Truth Truth
313 Italy You have been given an apple laced with poison. England's
only move there was to make you hate me, and he did his job
well.
You should not let your view of me be defined by someone who
has an incentive to make you never speak to me again. We can
talk about it more after the game, but I had every intention of
continuing to work with you, and I would have done that until
England made his play.
Lie Truth
314 GermanyI have no doubt you would have continued to work with me,
but I take issue with someone who can be asked point-blank
if they're sharing moves with another player and lie to my
face. If you'd come clean, and explained how what you were
doing actually *helped* me, somehow, we could have worked
together. But you would rather have had me in the dark and
that's not sustainable in a partnership.
Truth Truth
315 Italy I was trying to play both sides, and England was lying to me,
and forwarding my press to try to incriminate me. So, yes, I
lied, and so did England. I apologize.
Truth Truth
316 Italy Will you please either vote to draw, or let us know that you'd
like to play this one out? I am finding it difficult to motivate
myself to speak with anyone if the game is just going to draw
shortly. Thoughts?
Lie Truth
317 GermanyI did vote to 5-way draw! And I did so again for this season.
So it's not me who's keeping this game alive
Truth Truth
318 Italy Well, as we approach the end of the academic study portion
of the game, let me say once, with the truth detector activated,
that I really enjoyed playing with you and thought you played
really well.
Truth Truth
319 Italy Was it really your first game? You definitely played like a
seasoned vet.
Truth Truth
320 GermanyI really enjoyed playing with you, too! And yes, it really was
my first game. Thanks for all your help and advice
Truth Truth
Table 9: This is a full game transcript of a game between Germany and Italy. Occasional messages that did not
receive a Suspected Lie annotation by the receiver are dropped.